# ParallelMemoryInArduino

A small library handling a parallel flash memory chip attached to Arduino platform through shift registers. It is intended as a data collection device, single file at a time. Definitely, it is not a flash disk with functioning file system. In fact, there is no file system, but the library includes code for extending the chip's life via wear leveling. Think of an Arduino based measuring device you use to collect large amounts of data in the field, one time, after which it can offload the data to a computer via serial port.

Since this hardware implementation uses the MCP23008 I/O expander from Adafruit [https://www.adafruit.com/products/593] you  will have to download and install to your Arduino software the associated library, Adafruit_MCP23008, which is here: https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit-MCP23008-library . Thus, the "ParallelFlashMemory.h" should include "Adafruit_MCP23008.h".

Now the fun part begins: did you notice the word "should" above? My main project uses other libraries from Adafruit, some of which also include Adafruit_MCP23008. The Arduino compiler is not very smart in that it screams "Conflict! Adafruit_MCP23008 already defined". I could spend weeks trying to resolve Arduino's bugs. Instead, I opted for a simple workaround: I simply made a local copy of the Adafruit_MCP23008 library, renamed it (and its class!) to Adafruit_MCP23008_RF and inlcuded the local file "Adafruit_MCP23008_RF.h". Therefore, if your Arduino compiler misbehaves the same way, then I recommend the same workaround followed by appropriate edits in "ParallelFlashMemory.h". Next, you have to search for all instances of the "Adafruit_MCP23008" class in all source files and replace these by "Adafruit_MCP23008_RF".
